An introduction to the Bible.
The Bible is a collection
of ancient writings, or books,
that contain God’s message for all people.
This message was put down in writing
by approximately 40 different men.
It was written in Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek
using Hebrew letters and Greek letters.
The writers came
from many different backgrounds
and lived in various places
throughout the ancient Near East
and southern Europe.
Yet everything in the Bible harmonizes
—there are no contradictions.
By various means,
God put his thoughts
into the minds of these writers.
That is why the Bible says
that “all Scripture is inspired of God.”
Bible writing began in 1513 B.C.E.
It continued for the next 1,600 years.
The last books of the Bible to be written
were completed about 98 C.E.
The Bible’s 66 books
are grouped into two main sections:
the Hebrew Scriptures,
often called the Old Testament,
and the Christian Greek Scriptures,
commonly called the New Testament.
The Hebrew Scriptures
make up the first 39 books of the Bible.
The Pentateuch, or first five books,
describe the creation of all things
and the founding
of the ancient nation of Israel.
The historical books show how,
after the nation of Israel
enters the Promised Land,
Israel is unfaithful to God
and is taken into exile
but eventually returns to its homeland.
The poetic books feature sacred songs
and practical wisdom for daily living.
The prophetic books foretell future events
and contain instructions
and warnings for God’s people.
The last 27 books of the Bible
make up the Christian Greek Scriptures.
First, there are the four Gospels
—a history of Jesus’
earthly life and ministry.
Then Acts of Apostles
narrates the history
of the early Christian congregation.
There are 21 letters
that contain practical counsel
and encouragement for Christians.
The last book, Revelation,
contains a series of prophetic visions.
In the Bible,
God identifies himself as the Creator,
outlines his purpose,
and reveals his personal name, Jehovah
—shown here in ancient Hebrew lettering.
Did you know?
Unlike any other book,
the Bible magnifies God’s name, Jehovah.
It mentions his name over 7,000 times,
more than any other name.
Jehovah’s purpose
is for all intelligent creatures
to live forever under his rulership.
But early in human history,
Jehovah’s sovereignty, or right to rule,
was challenged
by a rebellious spirit creature called Satan,
who spoke by means of a snake.
How Jehovah will clear his name
and restore his rulership
by means of his Kingdom
is the theme of the Bible.
To answer Satan’s accusations,
Jehovah allows humans
to pursue their own course.
Centuries of disastrous human rule follow.
Meanwhile, Jehovah arranges
to accomplish his purpose
by means of a Savior
—the Messiah—
who will eventually become
King of God’s Kingdom.
In time, Jehovah reveals
who this Messiah will be.
Jesus, a spirit son of God,
is miraculously born as a human.
He teaches people about Jehovah
and sacrifices his life to save mankind.
God then resurrects Jesus
back to heavenly life.
The Bible says that Jesus rids the heavens
of all those
who do not support God’s sovereignty.
As King of God’s Kingdom,
Jesus is joined by 144,000 corulers,
“who have been bought from the earth.”
God’s Kingdom
will restore the earth to ideal conditions.
Jehovah’s purpose will be fulfilled:
All faithful intelligent creatures
will unitedly worship him forever
as their one true God and Sovereign.
As you read and study the Bible,
note its internal harmony
and practical wisdom
as well as how each book
contributes to its overall theme:
the vindication of Jehovah’s name,
which will be accomplished
by means of his heavenly Kingdom
in the hands
of his only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ.